>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, let's talk about
our practice with recursive ideas,
in Exercise 6.
[COUGH] As you see, the read me says,
we've got this mult function,
we wanna turn it into
a recursive function.
If you look at the existing
implementation, it was very
straightforward for three numbers, but it
would not have worked for 4, 5,6 numbers.
We wanna create a recursive one that would
work appropriately for any number of them.
So I'm gonna start by.
>> Kyle Simpson: Listing our product,
because in multiplication we call
it a product instead of a sum.
Our product and then our nums.
collecting the rest of them
up in the nums, [COUGH] and
that's the same signature I'd use even if
I was going to do the iterative forms,
so it doesn't even really need to change
its name to say that it's recursive.
This is how we would want to express it.
Ideally, recursion is a hidden detail
from the user of your function.
Ideally, they shouldn't
have to care about that.
All right, if I were to write a loop,
I would just start out my four-loop and
just start multiplying each item in
the numbers list into the product,
I'd just say, times equals into
the product and then return that.
So let's start then by expressing
this as a recursive implementation.
In the same way for
the numbers where we were adding,
we can express the iteration
through recursion by saying,
we're just gonna pair that
numbers list down one at a time.
So our base case is when
the numbers list is at zero.
When its length is at 0.
And if that is the case,
then whatever was passed in as
product is what we wanna return.
>> Kyle Simpson: If not, if we're not in
the base condition, we're gonna need to
make a recursive call, and the recursive
call is gonna be product* what?
>> Speaker 2: Call to the function.
>> Kyle Simpson: The call to the function,
the recursive call to the function.
>> Speaker 2: With the nums array.
>> Kyle Simpson: With the numbers array.
The numbers array's
already been pared down.
It's already the tail, so
we don't need to do anything else to it.
We just need to pass it along and say,
go figure out what the product of that is.
Come back and give me that answer.
We'll multiply that by the current
product, and then we're done.
If you like the word result better
than product, you can also use that.
It's more generic than sum and product.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's
test that real quick,
just to make sure that's
gonna work appropriately.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
there we go, we get 360.
Which matches with mathematic intuition,
because 3, 4,
5 is 60 so 3, 4, 5,
6 would be 6 times that 360.
>> Kyle Simpson: Questions
about exercise six?
>> Speaker 2: So, I did a similar
thing to the last one you did where I
took the first 2 values.
>> Kyle Simpson: We're gonna get to that
in just a sec, I was just gonna show that.
I just wanna make sure there weren't any
questions about the algorithm first.
>> Kyle Simpson: As you were just saying,
which is great.
Let's, in a forward thinking way, and
again that won't be totally obvious yet.
But in a forward thinking way,
let's peak ahead into our tail,
let's look at the next item in the list.
So I'll just name that num.
And then.
>> Kyle Simpson: My base
condition is still the same, but
I need to multiply product by num.
And then add num back into
the list of things that's gonna be passed
along, if we aren't in the base condition.
Does that match with how you did it?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
a little bit differently.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
>> Speaker 3: I checked to
see if num was undefined.
If it was a returned x,
otherwise I return the call to mult with
the first argument as product times num,
and then the tail.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let me
see if I understand.
>> Speaker 3: But it's the same sort of.
>> Kyle Simpson: You're saying your
base condition was if num is undefined?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
I just popped it in chat if you wanna.
>> Kyle Simpson: Does that
represent what you were doing?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so.
[COUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: We are gonna come back to
the approach that you're
actually hinting towards.
So rather than me comment too much on it,
let me just pause that
part of our discussion.
I see what you're doing with that,
and that's a good
thing that you're doing it that way,
but you're just slightly ahead of
where we're headed with our discussions,
so let's just pause that for a moment.